---
layout: post
title: 'security series: encryption 101 – the basics of public and private keys'
subtitle: 
cover-img: /assets/img/security101-1.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
tags: [security, career]
---

As a software engineer who recently switched to a team within Microsoft Security, ramping up on security fundamentals has been especially top of mind. As part of my effort to learn more in this space, even beyond what’s directly related to my team, I’ve decided to start my first blog series! With each post, I’ll dive into a different security concept, starting with the basics.

For the pilot post, I’ll be diving into one of the most foundational security topics: encryption, focusing on how it works with public and private keys.

**Why Do We Even Need Encryption?**

Since we’re really starting from square one, the first logical question is: why do we even need encryption? Well, as someone who would prefer that their credit card information not be exposed to the entire world, I’m fully on board with the idea! Encryption helps keep sensitive data private, ensuring that its contents can’t be read by unauthorized parties. When I purchase an [espresso-brown Alo hoodie](https://www.aloyoga.com/products/u3032rg-accolade-hoodie-espresso?variant=43766268952756&disableCurrencyEstimate&utm_medium=cpc&utm_source=google&utm_campaign=PPC_GOOG_Shopping_US_PMax_BestSellers&utm_content=pla&utm_term=U3032RG040643&utm_id=19697027698&gad_source=1&gad_campaignid=19697030788&gbraid=0AAAAADkcv-OCjYhlowrxL9eGGAzxhI6kC&gclid=Cj0KCQjwoNzABhDbARIsALfY8VMXMzoDUY_sWBUHYlJraZiqULILxAfpD9f0HzS-bzrvuFOagEhR5SQaAhRSEALw_wcB), the only recipient I want for my credit card info is Alo, not anyone else snooping on the network in between. Encryption, and specifically, the use of public and private keys, is what makes that possible.

**What is Encryption, and How Does It Work?**

Encryption is the process of converting readable information (plaintext) into something unreadable (ciphertext), so that only someone with the right key can decode it. It can get incredibly complex, so let’s start simple. One of the oldest and easiest to digest encryption techniques is the [Caesar Cipher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caesar_cipher), a method where each letter is “shifted” by a fixed number (aka, our key) of positions in the alphabet.

Let’s say our fixed key is 3, and we want to encrypt the word “coffee”

- C → F
- O → R
- F → I
- F → I
- E → H
- E → H

..which gives us an output of “friihh.”

After encoding our secret message, we can pass it, along with our key, to the intended recipient. They can then decode the message by performing the same process in reverse.

- F → C
- R → O
- I → F
- I → F
- H → E
- H → E

...leaving them with our intended message, “coffee.”

Although this encryption algorithm would be incredibly easy to decode, it clearly illustrates the core concept behind encryption and how a key allows us to encode and decode secret messages. I’m hoping to dedicate some future posts to more complex encryption algorithms that are currently used in practice.

**Symmetric vs Asymmetric Encryption**

The Caesar Cipher is a great example of what we call symmetric encryption. Symmetric encryption is when the **same key is used for both encryption and decryption**, meaning both parties use the same key to communicate back and forth. Asymmetric encryption, on the other hand, uses a **pair of keys: one for encryption and a different one for decryption.**

In practice, symmetric encryption is considered less secure than asymmetric encryption because the shared key needs to be transmitted between parties (so that they can both use it for encyption/decryption). If the key is intercepted during transmission, it could allow an attacker to decrypt any messages exchanged.

**Public and Private Keys**

With asymmetric encryption, we introduce the concept of a public and a private key. These keys are exactly what they sound like: the private key is kept private, and the public key is shared publicly. 

If I want to send a secret message to my friend Lena, I’ll use her public key to encrypt it. Once she receives the message, she’ll use her private key to decrypt it. Since she’s the only one who has access to that private key, she’s the only one who can decrypt and read the message.

The relationship between the public and private key is what makes this work. It allows Lena to take my encrypted message and turn it back into something meaningful. Because we only want Lena to be able to decrypt this message, the math behind generating the keys gets a bit complex, especially with modern encryption algorithms. We rely on difficult mathematical problems that are hard to reverse without the private key to keep our secrets safe. If these problems were easy to solve, our messages would be vulnerable to hackers, defeating the entire purpose. 

Additionally, we often use prime numbers to power these complex computations. As a former math major and number theory enthusiast, I could go on and on about primes and how iconic they are, but I’ll save that topic for another day.