---
layout: post
title: math!
subtitle: 
cover-img: /assets/img/math2.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
tags: [hobbies, math]
---

As a kid, many people (mostly adults) like to group you into one of two categories. You're either a math kid or a writing kid. Right-brained or left-brained. A STEM kid or a literary arts kid. No matter the method of categorization, I was always placed in the more "mathy" bucket, whether I liked it or not. And, for the most part, I did like it. I always preferred numbers over words, mathematical induction over writing prose, and solving problems over unleashing my creative side. Math is logical and consistent, and I’ve always found great comfort in that.

As I progressed into more advanced math classes, my love for the subject only grew. I absolutely adored AP Calculus (I know how that sounds, just know that AP Euro was my actual 13th reason, so I was by no means perfect). In college, I took multivariable calculus, linear algebra, and a handful of other math courses required for my CS major freshman year. However, once those were completed, and I realized I had just finished my last math course ever, I couldn’t help but almost feel incomplete…and almost kind of sad? I knew there was more math out there that I hadn’t even touched the surface of yet, and I wanted to uncover it. So, I decided my journey through upper-level mathematics wasn’t over just yet.

Let me start by saying that upper-level college math is an entirely different beast than any other course I had encountered before. Real Analysis and Algebraic Geometry are extremely complex, dense subjects that demanded a whole new level of analytical thinking. They were very, very, *very* hard. I found myself in office hours for Real Analysis almost every week, struggling through the abstract homework problems my professor (Jordan Ellenberg, a literal math legend) came up with from his own mind. 

But despite the challenge, I loved flexing that mental muscle. Solving a hard proof after days of wrestling with it is a thrilling feeling, and one I still miss to this day.

I don’t know if there’s really one specific thing that makes me love math so much, but as an early-in-career software engineer, I can say with full honesty that I really, truly miss it. 

Just writing this post made me realize how much I miss it, actually. I even stopped midway to find my next book… (it’s about Fermat’s Last Theorem).