---
layout: post
title: notion, please sponsor me
subtitle: 
cover-img: /assets/img/notion.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
tags: [hobbies, productivity]
---

Based on the title of this article, it's probably pretty easy to guess where I draft all of my blog posts.

Those who know me know that Notion is genuinely what keeps me sane. I'm forever grateful for the sense of control it gives me over my life. Sure, a lot of the things Notion does can be achieved with other note-taking tools or even physical notebooks and planners, but let me have my fun! The aesthetics, the clean and customizable layout, and the sheer flexibility of Notion make it an incredibly useful tool that helps me keep my chaotic life somewhat under control.

In this article, I’ll be walking through some of my favorite ways to use Notion (at least the pages I use daily or weekly). This is by no means an exhaustive list, so hopefully there will be a Part 2 where I can include more content.

### 1. To Do

This one is fairly obvious, and is probably the most common reason people use Notion. I use this page as my “first thing I open when I open my eyes in the morning” page. It includes:

- **My Weekly Focuses**: Big-picture things I want to accomplish, habit goals for the week
- **P0, P1, P2 Priorities:**
    - **P0**: Something I fill out each morning with the tasks I set out to accomplish that day
    - **P1**: Tasks I’d like to have done sometime that week
    - **P2**: Backlog or nice-to-haves (aka my dumping grounds for random tasks)

Originally, I had all of these grouped into one massive list… which quickly became overwhelming. I write EVERYTHING down, no matter how small, so the list grew exponentially. I’d end up feeling like I wasn’t being “productive enough” even when I was making progress. Breaking things down and setting clearer deadlines gave me peace *and* a better sense of when things actually needed to get done. Double win!

### 2. Second Brain

Buckle up, because this is a hefty one. This isn’t just a single page, but an entire web of linked and sub-pages filled with random learnings and information I’ve gathered over the past five years. The inspiration for this page comes from the book [*Building a Second Brain: A Proven Method to Organize Your Digital Life and Unlock Your Creative Potential*](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59616977-building-a-second-brain?from_search=true&from_srp=true&qid=VFRAV6AIpQ&rank=1){:target="_blank"} by Tiago Forte. I don’t follow the PARA format exactly, but I loved the idea of organizing thoughts and learnings in a centralized place (aka, a second brain). My current breakdown includes: 

- **Tech & Finance:** Just as you’d think, these two categories include notes I’ve taken on various tech and finance topics from articles, YouTube videos, books… anything, really.
- **People:** Notes from impactful and fun conversations. If I meet someone I look up to or find really interesting, I jot down insights from our chat
- **Content**: Notes from podcasts and books I’ve consumed, lots of tech/finance/politics/self-help overlap here. It’s nice to have the notes and links to look back on anytime.
- **Other:**  This category is pure chaos. Job application questions (I like drafting them in Notion first), sourdough tips, Poker 101, notes from Grace Hopper Conference 2024, and more. Clearly, I have some random hobbies.

I’m realizing while writing this that I should probably spin out a few more categories from this "Other" bucket… but that’s a task for another day.

### 3. Spending Tracker

Next on the list, my spending tracker! This page is one of my favorites, as it holds data for every dollar I’ve spent over the past two years. 

Each month has its own database with:

- A detailed input table (date, amount, category, payment method, etc.)
- A grouped view by expense category to quickly assess where money goes (hint: it’s usually groceries, hence my obsession with the Amex Gold, but that’s a whole separate blog post)
- A pie chart showing this month’s spending breakdown by category (excluding rent, because thanks to Seattle prices, it would dominate the chart and make it unreadable)

I love being able to easily track where my money is going, and I often use this data to create my monthly budgets. Can you guess what the next page is?

### 4. Monthly Budget

As I mentioned in my previous section, I also like to keep a monthly budget in Notion. This page is pretty straightforward. At the beginning of each month, I:

- Reflect on how I did the previous month
- Set goals for the new month, taking into account anything upcoming (e.g., trips, birthdays, visitors)

Obviously, I don’t always stick to my budget 100%, but I like to have goals that motivate me to save and spend my money with intention.

### 5. Monthly Check-In

This is a page I implemented within the last year, and it’s quickly become one of my favorites. At the end of each month, I’ll create a new entry in this page, which includes three subpages: 

- Finances
- Goals
- Highlights/Lowlights

Each subpage includes prompts I fill out to reflect on how the month went and what I want to focus on next. I’ll usually check in mid-month, too, to see if I’m on track. It’s also a fun place to celebrate and remember the highlights that made the month feel special!

### 6. Habit Tracker

There’s nothing too fancy about this one, I just track a handful of habits I committed to at the beginning of 2025. Each day, I check off whether or not I completed them. I’ve been wanting to add more visualizations (like consistency charts or an easier method for habit-editing), but I haven’t gotten around to it yet. Still, I find it beneficial to have this tracker, and I often feel good when I’m able to check off a majority of the boxes for the day.

### 7. Mood Tracker

Another simple one, but in my opinion, so worthwhile. I log my mood every day and reflect on how things felt. Sometimes it’s a bit disheartening to see “anxious” or “tired” several days in a row, but hey, life happens.

### Honorable Mention: My 2025

This page could (and probably will) be its own post. It holds all of my goals for 2025, broken down in great detail. I’ll either expand it here later or give it its own full spotlight soon. Stay tuned!

As you can probably tell, I use Notion for many, many things in my life. I love the way this app gives me control over my life, and I’ve found it incredibly useful for staying organized and productive. It allows me to manage everything from finances, to work, to mental health and random learning. 

I love having track records of different things in my life. It allows me to grow and learn from past experiences and just become a better human overall. @Notion, pls sponsor me. I’m your biggest fan!!

**Disclaimer**: These are not all pages I personally created from scratch. A lot of them have been enhanced or modified based on templates from other creators.